# Non-violence in Iraq {#non-violent-iraq}

2008-12-15

I have come up with a solution for how to get America out of Iraq
quickly. The solution is non-violent resistance. If the Iraqis decide
to stop providing services and goods from Americans, and stage
non-violent sit-ins at Baghdad the US army will have no choice to but
to leave. The Iraqis must become stronger, they must decide that it is
not worth working and living, if they are doing so under an oppressor.

People say that by leaving Iraq the Americans will destabilize the
region. An Iraqi people strongly willed enough to oust the Americans
with non-violent resistance, is an Iraqi people strong enough to stand
up against the insidious foreign rule from other Middle-eastern
countries.

The non-violence is crucial. It is already clear that violence does
not work for ousting the US army. Violent people will be branded as
terrorists, non-violent people will be true martyrs. People can not
rally around the banner of violence. They can, however, take up the
cause of non-violence.

The non-violent resistance will be a public relations boon. New media
always likes to cover the story of David vs Goliath; even more so if
David does not have a sling. Imagine how it would look to see reports
of the US army firing into a non-violent army. Think of how badly the
[Khudai Khidmatgar](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Khudai_Khidmatgar)
made the British look. Images of the American army doing the same
would shatter the American conscience of being the world
'goody-two-shoes', and bring us Americans back to reality.

The ousting not only must be non-violent but it must also be
secular. If the Americans are ousted for non-secular reasons, the
non-secular ruling class will have even more power in the ensuing
government. The Americans should be ousted because they have no right
to be in Iraq. Under international law (think not of the charade of UN
resolutions), it is clear that America is an invading imperialist with
respect to Iraq. Invading imperialists should be repelled no matter
what their religion or social practices are. It should be reason
enough that Americans have no right to be in the country. There is no
need to bring up such inanities as Americans being infidels or spawn
of Satan, or whatever gibberish these religious folks come up with. Do
it for secular reasons.

Where is Iraq's Gandhi? Where is the leader who will bring about this
non-violent uprising that will free Iraq from its complacency and ill
fate? Any Iraqi could be the next Gandhi. All they need to do is stand
up and be the first not to cast the first stone. The first to preach
of non-violence and throw down their work and take up the cause of
non-violent resistance against this foreign oppressor.
