# Opportunity Monitoring Company {#opportunity-monitoring-company}

2008-12-10

Often I think of ideas for companies that sound great. Upon further
inspection, I find that there is some small economic detail that needs
to be true before the idea can be a success. For example, my friend
[David Grayson](http://www.davidegrayson.com) and I thought up an idea
for putting LED stickers on the bottom of glass beer bottles. We
figured that we could sell them to beer distributors as a way to
promote their glass bottle offerings. The trouble is, the cost of LEDs
plus batteries plus stickers is currently too much to make the offer
tenable. The price of the promotion needs to be some small fraction of
the gross margin on the bottles for this to be attractive to the
distributors.

We had this idea about a year ago and we haven't though much about it
since. It would be great if there was a company that aggregated ideas
like the one above and came up with the criteria for when the idea
would actually be economically viable. The company would monitor the
inputs: the prices of LEDs, stickers, and batteries. It would also
monitor the constraints: the gross margin on glass beer bottles, the
total consumption of these bottles. The company might even work with
distributors to get them on board before the idea even becomes
tenable. The company would then take these inputs and constraints and
come up with a equation for when the idea would make economic sense.

By periodically reviewing a large pool of ideas with similar structure
to the one above, the company would routinely find ideas that have
recently become economically viable. Having a large pool of ideas to
select from that have recently become economically viable would be a
very valuable service. The company could distribute this value in the
form of information, or in the form of implementing the idea using one
of its subsidiaries.

This type of company would be extremely exciting to work for because
they'd always be dealing with the newest possible ideas that could
actually work. It would be exciting to run a report daily, and see
that two of our 1 million stored ideas have become economically viable
over night.
