# Google Finance Definitions {#google-finance-definitions}

2008-12-18

Have you ever visited [Google
Finance](http://finance.google.com/finance?q=goog) and wondered what
all of those abbreviated names at the top of it are? Well I am going
to explain them to you.

The big unlabeled bold number is the current stock price in the
currency it is traded in. If you look at something on the London Stock
Exchange this number represents how much the stock is valued in Great
Britain Pounds. The New York Stock Exchange is in Dollars.

The green or red plus/minus with a number and a percent in parenthesis
right under the current stock price is the price move. If it is a
positive number it is the difference between the day's low price and
the current price. If it is a negative number it is the difference
between the day's high price and the current price. Whether it is
negative or positive is determined by the current price's relation to
the opening price of the day.

: Open

The price for one share as of the beginning of trading.

: High

The highest traded price of the day.

: Low

The lowest traded price of the day.

: Vol

The number of shares that have changed hands today.

: Mkt Cap

The 'market capitalization' is the product of the total shares
outstanding and the current price. This is what the market thinks the
company is worth.

: 52Wk High

The highest price of the stock in the last 52 weeks.

: 52Wk Low

The lowest price of the stock in the last 52 weeks.

: Avg Vol

The average number of shares that change hand each day.

: P/E

The [price per earnings
ratio](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PE_ratio). It is the number years
before the earnings per share would pay back the purchase price.

: F P/E

The P/E using the company's forecasted earnings for the next 12 months. Probably less reliable.

: Beta

The coefficient of volatility of a stock. A beta of 1 means the stock
is highly correlated with the general price of the market. A higher
number means it is more volatile than the market, and a beta of less
than 1 means it is less volatile than the market.

: EPS

Earnings per share. It is the net income minus dividends divided by
total number of shares.

: Dividend

The number of cents the company will give you per share you
own. Companies typically issue this number of cents to stock owners 4
times a year.

: Yield

This is the annual rate of return you can expect to receive from the
dividend issues if the company keeps issuing the dividend. Compare
this to the yield on a savings account.

: Shares

The total number of shares outstanding.

: Inst. Own

The percentage of shares owned by mutual funds, pension funds, hedge
funds, banks, and insurance companies.
