# Memory Foam Mattress {#memory-foam-mattress}

2008-12-08

The Tempurpedic mattress commercials have always intrigued me. The
promise is great: a material that conforms to your body without poking
you the way coiled spring mattresses do. This was enough to make me
want to try one. I went to a local mattress store to try one and was
amazed by two things. One was how good the bed felt underneath me, and
two was the price. The beds cost at least 5 times as much as
comparable coiled spring mattresses. This was confusing because the
process for making a foam bed is actually a simpler process than
constructing many metal coils and putting them in the right
orientation. With a foam bed all you need is a mold of the right size
and the right mix of materials at the correct temperature. My gut told
me someone would be selling these beds for less.

After searching the internet for about a day, I stumbled upon The Foam
Factory's website for [Memory Foam
Mattresses](https://www.mattressbymail.com/memorymattress.html). With
prices 5 times less than Tempurpedic, comparable quality, and free
shipping these beds are amazing. I bought a Twin 5" LUX-HQ 4" 4.5LB
Memory for $254.99 + 20 for the nicer cover and had it shipped to me.

The mattress came compressed in tight plastic wrapping, which made it
take up less space than it does now. After I took it out of the
plastic wrap it started to expand. Once fully expanded it was ready to
use, and felt great to lie down in. The strangest sensation is when
you go to plop down on your bed, you expect it to feel the same way a
coiled spring mattress feels, but it feels totally different. So far I
haven't gotten used to this difference.

I have only slept in it for 2 night so far, and I don't have any
complaints, but stay tuned for an update.
