# Money Burning Charity {#money-burning-charity}

2008-12-20

Charities usually have a mission. The mission says who to help and
how. It helps to be specific. Charities that focus on cleft lips tend
to do better than ones focusing on heart disease. The charity I
thought of is quite specific with its mission. The mission is to
destroy all of the money donated to it.

By destroying all the money donated, this charity will be bolstering
the value of the currency donated. For example, when you donate one
million USD to this charity, everyone else's US Dollars become more
valuable. It is the opposite of inflation. Instead of goods and
services costing more because there are more dollars around to buy
them, they cost less because there are less dollars around to buy
them.

By reducing prices in general, this charity makes it easier for
consumers to buy necessary items. Instead of each paycheck being able
to buy less and less goods and services, it will be able to buy more
and more.

If popular enough, it may make a slight dent in the rampant inflation
caused by the central banks of the world. In fact, to make it more
effective, instead of destroying the money donated to it, it will
first invest the money and only half the proceeds. This will create a
machine that destroys every increasing amounts of money.

Unfortunately, the burning would not negate the bureau-potism caused
by the inflationary system: the system that favors those who are close
friends with the government by buying their goods and services with
inflationary dollars. It would also not help people pay off
loans. Most of the money in existence in the world is because banks
loaned it into existence, and when they charge interest on top of the
created money, it becomes impossible for people to pay off all the
debt in existence even by using all the credit in existence. This
charity would be destroying credit, without quenching the debt that
created it.
